---
date: 2009-11-29 10:03:00+00:00


slug: my-favorite-s60-apps
title: My favorite S60 apps
wordpress_id: 46
categories:
- apps
- s60
- symbian
---

I try and use my phone for everything I can. Some of the apps that I   
find very useful are: 

1. fring (free): Works with gtalk, twitter, fb, msn etc. If you have   
one of those newfangled Nseries phones, you can use the front camera   
to make skype video calls (over WiFi).   

1. Nokia Messaging Email (free beta, might change in the future): The   
native email application on the E71 is a load of crap. It's amazing   
how they pitch it as a business phone and ship with a pathetic Email   
application. The Nokia Messaging application is pretty good, it has a   
very usable interface and supports HTML email. The only downside is   
that Nokia wants a copy of your email username and password.  

1. Mail for Exchange (free) : I don't actually use this for email,   
I've set it to synchronize my contacts with Google Contacts. You can   
use this for push email if you need to use it with MS Exchange.   

1. Splash ID (slightly expensive, USD 29) : I have this magical   
ability of forgetting passwords and PIN codes. This is the best   
application I've found so far that does a good job of remembering them   
for me. The interface is slightly dated, but it works like a charm.   
Highly recommend it, as you should have different complex passwords   
for different services.   

1. Truphone (free app, pay for recharges): This is similar to the   
Gizmo application for making phone calls over WiFi. It is a lifesaver   
if you need to make a lot of international phone calls. It uses WiFi   
to connect and the call is carried out using VoIP. Pretty reasonable   
rates too.   

1. Putty for S60 (free, OSS): Most of you would never need/use this   
application. I use this to connect to my home computers to check on   
stuff. Also the ability to remotely reboot one's computer is awesome.